docs/sphinx/user_guide.rst, before:

==========
User Guide
==========

.. note::
    This page describes release 2.x.

    Run ``pyftpsync --help`` to get help on your current version.


Command Line Interface
======================

Use the ``--help`` or ``-h`` argument to get help::

    $ pyftpsync --help
    usage: pyftpsync [-h] [-V] {upload,download,sync,scan} ...

    Synchronize folders over FTP.

    positional arguments:
      {upload,download,sync,scan}
                            sub-command help
        upload              copy new and modified files to remote folder
        download            copy new and modified files from remote folder to
                            local target
        sync                synchronize new and modified files between remote
                            folder and local target
        scan                repair, purge, or check targets

    optional arguments:
      -h, --help            show this help message and exit
      -V, --version         show program's version number and exit

    See also https://github.com/mar10/pyftpsync
    $


Target URLs
-----------

The ``local`` and ``remote`` target arguments can be file paths or URLs
(currently the ``ftp:`` and ``ftps:`` protocols are supported)::

    $ pyftpsync upload ~/temp ftp://example.com/target/folder

FTP URLs may contain credentials::

    $ pyftpsync upload ~/temp ftp://joe:secret@example.com/target/folder

Note that `pyftpsync` also supports prompting for passwords and storing passwords
in the system keyring.


Authentication
--------------

FTP targets often require authentication. There are multiple ways to handle this:

  1. Pass credentials with the target URL: |br|
     ``ftp://user:password@example.com/target/folder``
  2. Pass only a user name with the target URL: |br|
     ``ftp://user@example.com/target/folder`` |br|
     The CLI will prompt for a password (the library would raise an error).
  3. Don't pass any credentials with the URL: |br|
     ``ftp://example.com/target/folder`` |br|
     `pyftpsync` will now

     1. Try to lookup credentials for host ('example.com') in the system keyring storage.
     2. Try to lookup credentials for host ('example.com') in the ``.netrc`` file.
     3. CLI will prompt for username and password.
     4. Assume anonymous access.

  4. If authentication fails, the CLI will prompt for a password again.

Credential discovery can be controlled by ``--no-keyring``, ``--no-netrc``, and ``--no-prompt``
options.
``--prompt`` will force prompting, even if lookup is possible.
``--store-password`` will save credentials to the system keyring storage upon successful login.


Matching and Filtering
----------------------

The ``--match`` option filters processed files using on or more patterns
(using the `fnmatch syntax <https://docs.python.org/3/library/fnmatch.html#module-fnmatch>`_). |br|
**Note:**  These patterns are only applied to files, not directories.

The ``--exclude`` option is applied after `--match` and removes entries from processing. Unlike `--match`,
these patterns are also applied to directories.

Example::

    $ pyftpsync scan /my/folder --list --match=*.js,*.css --exclude=.git,build,node_modules


Upload Files Syntax
-------------------

Command specific help is available like so::

    $ pyftpsync upload -h
    usage: pyftpsync upload [-h] [--force] [--resolve {local,skip,ask}] [--delete]
                            [--delete-unmatched] [-n] [-v | -q] [--progress]
                            [--no-color] [--ftp-active] [--migrate] [-m MATCH]
                            [-x EXCLUDE] [--prompt | --no-prompt] [--no-keyring]
                            [--no-netrc] [--store-password]
                            LOCAL REMOTE

    positional arguments:
      LOCAL                 path to local folder (default: .)
      REMOTE                path to remote folder

    optional arguments:
      -h, --help            show this help message and exit
      --force               overwrite remote files, even if the target is newer
                            (but no conflict was detected)
      --resolve {local,skip,ask}
                            conflict resolving strategy (default: 'ask')
      --delete              remove remote files if they don't exist locally
      --delete-unmatched    remove remote files if they don't exist locally or
                            don't match the current filter (implies '--delete'
                            option)
      -n, --dry-run         just simulate and log results, but don't change
                            anything
      -v, --verbose         increment verbosity by one (default: 3, range: 0..5)
      -q, --quiet           decrement verbosity by one
      --progress            show progress info, even if redirected or verbose < 3
      --no-color            prevent use of ansi terminal color codes
      --ftp-active          use Active FTP mode instead of passive
      --migrate             replace meta data files from different pyftpsync
                            versions with current format. Existing data will be
                            discarded.
      -m MATCH, --match MATCH
                            wildcard for file names using fnmatch syntax (default:
                            match all, separate multiple values with ',')
      -x EXCLUDE, --exclude EXCLUDE
                            wildcard of files and directories to exclude (applied
                            after --match, default: '.DS_Store,.git,.hg,.svn')
      --prompt              always prompt for password
      --no-prompt           prevent prompting for invalid credentials
      --no-keyring          prevent use of the system keyring service for
                            credential lookup
      --no-netrc            prevent use of .netrc file for credential lookup
      --store-password      save password to keyring if login succeeds
    $


Example: Upload Files
---------------------

Upload all new and modified files from user's temp folder to an FTP server.
No files are changed on the local directory::

  $ pyftpsync upload ~/temp ftp://example.com/target/folder

Add the ``--delete`` option to remove all files from the remote target that
don't exist locally::

  $ pyftpsync upload ~/temp ftp://example.com/target/folder --delete

Add the ``--dry-run`` option to switch to DRY-RUN mode, i.e. run in test mode without
modifying files::

  $ pyftpsync upload ~/temp ftp://example.com/target/folder --delete --dry-run

Add one or more  ``-v`` options to increase output verbosity::

  $ pyftpsync upload ~/temp ftp://example.com/target/folder --delete -vv

Mirror current directory to remote folder::

  $ pyftpsync upload . ftp://example.com/target/folder --force --delete --resolve=local


.. note:: Replace ``ftp://`` with ``ftps://`` to enable TLS encryption.


Synchronize Files Syntax
------------------------
::

    $ pyftpsync sync -h
    usage: pyftpsync sync [-h] [--resolve {old,new,local,remote,skip,ask}] [-n]
                          [-v | -q] [--progress] [--no-color] [--ftp-active]
                          [--migrate] [-m MATCH] [-x EXCLUDE]
                          [--prompt | --no-prompt] [--no-keyring] [--no-netrc]
                          [--store-password]
                          LOCAL REMOTE

    positional arguments:
      LOCAL                 path to local folder (default: .)
      REMOTE                path to remote folder

    optional arguments:
      -h, --help            show this help message and exit
      --resolve {old,new,local,remote,skip,ask}
                            conflict resolving strategy (default: 'ask')
      -n, --dry-run         just simulate and log results, but don't change
                            anything
      -v, --verbose         increment verbosity by one (default: 3, range: 0..5)
      -q, --quiet           decrement verbosity by one
      --progress            show progress info, even if redirected or verbose < 3
      --no-color            prevent use of ansi terminal color codes
      --ftp-active          use Active FTP mode instead of passive
      --migrate             replace meta data files from different pyftpsync
                            versions with current format. Existing data will be
                            discarded.
      -m MATCH, --match MATCH
                            wildcard for file names using fnmatch syntax (default:
                            match all, separate multiple values with ',')
      -x EXCLUDE, --exclude EXCLUDE
                            wildcard of files and directories to exclude (applied
                            after --match, default: '.DS_Store,.git,.hg,.svn')
      --prompt              always prompt for password
      --no-prompt           prevent prompting for invalid credentials
      --no-keyring          prevent use of the system keyring service for
                            credential lookup
      --no-netrc            prevent use of .netrc file for credential lookup
      --store-password      save password to keyring if login succeeds
    $


Example: Synchronize Folders
----------------------------

Two-way synchronization of a local folder with an FTP server::

  $ pyftpsync sync --store-password --resolve=ask --execute ~/temp ftps://example.com/target/folder

Note that ``ftps:`` protocol was specified to enable TLS.


Verbosity Level
---------------

The verbosity level can have a value from 0 to 6::

    0: quiet
    1: show errors only
    2: show conflicts and 1 line summary only
    3: show write operations
    4: show equal files
    5: diff-info and benchmark summary
    6: show FTP commands


Exit Codes
----------

The CLI returns those exit codes::

    0: OK
    1: Error (network, internal, ...)
    2: CLI syntax error
    3: Aborted by user

..    10: Unresolved conflicts remaining (with option --conflicts-as-error)


Script Examples
===============

All options that are available for command line, can also be passed to
the synchronizers. For example ``--delete-unmatched`` becomes ``"delete_unmatched": True``.

Upload modified files from local folder to FTP server::

  from ftpsync.targets import FsTarget
  from ftpsync.ftp_target import FtpTarget
  from ftpsync.synchronizers import UploadSynchronizer

  local = FsTarget("~/temp")
  user ="joe"
  passwd = "secret"
  remote = FtpTarget("/temp", "example.com", username=user, password=passwd)
  opts = {"force": False, "delete_unmatched": True, "verbose": 3}
  s = UploadSynchronizer(local, remote, opts)
  s.run()

Synchronize a local folder with an FTP server using TLS::

  from ftpsync.targets import FsTarget
  from ftpsync.ftp_target import FtpTarget
  from ftpsync.synchronizers import BiDirSynchronizer

  local = FsTarget("~/temp")
  user ="joe"
  passwd = "secret"
  remote = FtpTarget("/temp", "example.com", username=user, password=passwd, tls=True)
  opts = {"resolve": "skip", "verbose": 1}
  s = BiDirSynchronizer(local, remote, opts)
  s.run()

Commit message:

.netrc on Windows requires HOME

docs/sphinx/user_guide.rst, after:

==========
User Guide
==========

.. note::
    This page describes release 2.x.

    Run ``pyftpsync --help`` to get help on your current version.


Command Line Interface
======================

Use the ``--help`` or ``-h`` argument to get help::

    $ pyftpsync --help
    usage: pyftpsync [-h] [-V] {upload,download,sync,scan} ...

    Synchronize folders over FTP.

    positional arguments:
      {upload,download,sync,scan}
                            sub-command help
        upload              copy new and modified files to remote folder
        download            copy new and modified files from remote folder to
                            local target
        sync                synchronize new and modified files between remote
                            folder and local target
        scan                repair, purge, or check targets

    optional arguments:
      -h, --help            show this help message and exit
      -V, --version         show program's version number and exit

    See also https://github.com/mar10/pyftpsync
    $


Target URLs
-----------

The ``local`` and ``remote`` target arguments can be file paths or URLs
(currently the ``ftp:`` and ``ftps:`` protocols are supported)::

    $ pyftpsync upload ~/temp ftp://example.com/target/folder

FTP URLs may contain credentials::

    $ pyftpsync upload ~/temp ftp://joe:secret@example.com/target/folder

Note that `pyftpsync` also supports prompting for passwords and storing passwords
in the system keyring.


Authentication
--------------

FTP targets often require authentication. There are multiple ways to handle this:

  1. Pass credentials with the target URL: |br|
     ``ftp://user:password@example.com/target/folder``
  2. Pass only a user name with the target URL: |br|
     ``ftp://user@example.com/target/folder`` |br|
     The CLI will prompt for a password (the library would raise an error).
  3. Don't pass any credentials with the URL: |br|
     ``ftp://example.com/target/folder`` |br|
     `pyftpsync` will now

     1. Try to lookup credentials for host ('example.com') in the system keyring storage.
     2. Try to lookup credentials for host ('example.com') in the ``.netrc`` file.
     3. CLI will prompt for username and password.
     4. Assume anonymous access.

  4. If authentication fails, the CLI will prompt for a password again.

Credential discovery can be controlled by ``--no-keyring``, ``--no-netrc``, and ``--no-prompt``
options.
``--prompt`` will force prompting, even if lookup is possible.
``--store-password`` will save credentials to the system keyring storage upon successful login.

.. note::

    On Windows, the `%HOME%` environment variable should be set: |br|
    ``> set HOME=%USERPROFILE%`` |br|
    ([see here](https://superuser.com/a/620146)).


Matching and Filtering
----------------------

The ``--match`` option filters processed files using on or more patterns
(using the `fnmatch syntax <https://docs.python.org/3/library/fnmatch.html#module-fnmatch>`_). |br|
**Note:**  These patterns are only applied to files, not directories.

The ``--exclude`` option is applied after `--match` and removes entries from processing. Unlike `--match`,
these patterns are also applied to directories.

Example::

    $ pyftpsync scan /my/folder --list --match=*.js,*.css --exclude=.git,build,node_modules


Upload Files Syntax
-------------------

Command specific help is available like so::

    $ pyftpsync upload -h
    usage: pyftpsync upload [-h] [--force] [--resolve {local,skip,ask}] [--delete]
                            [--delete-unmatched] [-n] [-v | -q] [--progress]
                            [--no-color] [--ftp-active] [--migrate] [-m MATCH]
                            [-x EXCLUDE] [--prompt | --no-prompt] [--no-keyring]
                            [--no-netrc] [--store-password]
                            LOCAL REMOTE

    positional arguments:
      LOCAL                 path to local folder (default: .)
      REMOTE                path to remote folder

    optional arguments:
      -h, --help            show this help message and exit
      --force               overwrite remote files, even if the target is newer
                            (but no conflict was detected)
      --resolve {local,skip,ask}
                            conflict resolving strategy (default: 'ask')
      --delete              remove remote files if they don't exist locally
      --delete-unmatched    remove remote files if they don't exist locally or
                            don't match the current filter (implies '--delete'
                            option)
      -n, --dry-run         just simulate and log results, but don't change
                            anything
      -v, --verbose         increment verbosity by one (default: 3, range: 0..5)
      -q, --quiet           decrement verbosity by one
      --progress            show progress info, even if redirected or verbose < 3
      --no-color            prevent use of ansi terminal color codes
      --ftp-active          use Active FTP mode instead of passive
      --migrate             replace meta data files from different pyftpsync
                            versions with current format. Existing data will be
                            discarded.
      -m MATCH, --match MATCH
                            wildcard for file names using fnmatch syntax (default:
                            match all, separate multiple values with ',')
      -x EXCLUDE, --exclude EXCLUDE
                            wildcard of files and directories to exclude (applied
                            after --match, default: '.DS_Store,.git,.hg,.svn')
      --prompt              always prompt for password
      --no-prompt           prevent prompting for invalid credentials
      --no-keyring          prevent use of the system keyring service for
                            credential lookup
      --no-netrc            prevent use of .netrc file for credential lookup
      --store-password      save password to keyring if login succeeds
    $


Example: Upload Files
---------------------

Upload all new and modified files from user's temp folder to an FTP server.
No files are changed on the local directory::

  $ pyftpsync upload ~/temp ftp://example.com/target/folder

Add the ``--delete`` option to remove all files from the remote target that
don't exist locally::

  $ pyftpsync upload ~/temp ftp://example.com/target/folder --delete

Add the ``--dry-run`` option to switch to DRY-RUN mode, i.e. run in test mode without
modifying files::

  $ pyftpsync upload ~/temp ftp://example.com/target/folder --delete --dry-run

Add one or more  ``-v`` options to increase output verbosity::

  $ pyftpsync upload ~/temp ftp://example.com/target/folder --delete -vv

Mirror current directory to remote folder::

  $ pyftpsync upload . ftp://example.com/target/folder --force --delete --resolve=local


.. note:: Replace ``ftp://`` with ``ftps://`` to enable TLS encryption.


Synchronize Files Syntax
------------------------
::

    $ pyftpsync sync -h
    usage: pyftpsync sync [-h] [--resolve {old,new,local,remote,skip,ask}] [-n]
                          [-v | -q] [--progress] [--no-color] [--ftp-active]
                          [--migrate] [-m MATCH] [-x EXCLUDE]
                          [--prompt | --no-prompt] [--no-keyring] [--no-netrc]
                          [--store-password]
                          LOCAL REMOTE

    positional arguments:
      LOCAL                 path to local folder (default: .)
      REMOTE                path to remote folder

    optional arguments:
      -h, --help            show this help message and exit
      --resolve {old,new,local,remote,skip,ask}
                            conflict resolving strategy (default: 'ask')
      -n, --dry-run         just simulate and log results, but don't change
                            anything
      -v, --verbose         increment verbosity by one (default: 3, range: 0..5)
      -q, --quiet           decrement verbosity by one
      --progress            show progress info, even if redirected or verbose < 3
      --no-color            prevent use of ansi terminal color codes
      --ftp-active          use Active FTP mode instead of passive
      --migrate             replace meta data files from different pyftpsync
                            versions with current format. Existing data will be
                            discarded.
      -m MATCH, --match MATCH
                            wildcard for file names using fnmatch syntax (default:
                            match all, separate multiple values with ',')
      -x EXCLUDE, --exclude EXCLUDE
                            wildcard of files and directories to exclude (applied
                            after --match, default: '.DS_Store,.git,.hg,.svn')
      --prompt              always prompt for password
      --no-prompt           prevent prompting for invalid credentials
      --no-keyring          prevent use of the system keyring service for
                            credential lookup
      --no-netrc            prevent use of .netrc file for credential lookup
      --store-password      save password to keyring if login succeeds
    $


Example: Synchronize Folders
----------------------------

Two-way synchronization of a local folder with an FTP server::

  $ pyftpsync sync --store-password --resolve=ask --execute ~/temp ftps://example.com/target/folder

Note that ``ftps:`` protocol was specified to enable TLS.


Verbosity Level
---------------

The verbosity level can have a value from 0 to 6::

    0: quiet
    1: show errors only
    2: show conflicts and 1 line summary only
    3: show write operations
    4: show equal files
    5: diff-info and benchmark summary
    6: show FTP commands


Exit Codes
----------

The CLI returns those exit codes::

    0: OK
    1: Error (network, internal, ...)
    2: CLI syntax error
    3: Aborted by user

..    10: Unresolved conflicts remaining (with option --conflicts-as-error)


Script Examples
===============

All options that are available for command line, can also be passed to
the synchronizers. For example ``--delete-unmatched`` becomes ``"delete_unmatched": True``.

Upload modified files from local folder to FTP server::

  from ftpsync.targets import FsTarget
  from ftpsync.ftp_target import FtpTarget
  from ftpsync.synchronizers import UploadSynchronizer

  local = FsTarget("~/temp")
  user ="joe"
  passwd = "secret"
  remote = FtpTarget("/temp", "example.com", username=user, password=passwd)
  opts = {"force": False, "delete_unmatched": True, "verbose": 3}
  s = UploadSynchronizer(local, remote, opts)
  s.run()

Synchronize a local folder with an FTP server using TLS::

  from ftpsync.targets import FsTarget
  from ftpsync.ftp_target import FtpTarget
  from ftpsync.synchronizers import BiDirSynchronizer

  local = FsTarget("~/temp")
  user ="joe"
  passwd = "secret"
  remote = FtpTarget("/temp", "example.com", username=user, password=passwd, tls=True)
  opts = {"resolve": "skip", "verbose": 1}
  s = BiDirSynchronizer(local, remote, opts)
  s.run()
